HOW TO RUN THE PROJECT

Step 1: Connect to MySQL Database

1. Open MySQL on your system.


2. Connect using the following credentials:

Database Name: employee

Username: root

Password: badboys*24



3. Ensure that the MySQL server is running properly before proceeding.




Step 2: Run the Backend

1. Open Visual Studio Code (VS Code).


2. Open the backend folder of the project.


3. Open a new terminal in VS Code.


4. Run the backend file using the command:

node server.js

or

npm start


5. This will establish a connection between the backend and the MySQL database to store and manage data.




---

Step 3: Run the Frontend

1. In VS Code, open the frontend folder.


2. Open a new terminal and switch the terminal type to Command Prompt.


3. Navigate to the frontend project location using:

cd 


4. Run the frontend using the command:

npm start


5. This command will start the React development server and automatically open your default web browser.




---

Step 4: View the Web Application

1. The project will open in your browser using the following link:

http://localhost:3000


2. The home screen will appear with a “Add User” button on the top-right corner.


3. Click Add User to enter and save the user details (Name, Email, etc.).




---

Step 5: Application Features

The main page displays the list of users with their Name and Email.

Each user entry has three buttons:

View: Displays complete details of the selected user.

Edit: Allows you to update the details of that user.

Delete: Removes the user data from the database.


Every user entry has its own individual View, Edit, and Delete buttons.



---

Step 6: Conclusion

This project demonstrates how to perform CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations using React (Frontend), Node.js/Express (Backend), and MySQL (Database).
It has been developed as part of my placement project to showcase my full-stack development skills.


---

Thank you for reviewing my project.
I hope it meets your expectations and provides a clear understanding of its functionality.

– Surjith D